[BIOSFORWARD]
Disk Manager CMOS Setup Instructions

The following instructions have been customized for your system.  In addition to
these instructions, you may need to refer to your computer owner's manual for
information specific to your system.

SETTING YOUR COMPUTER'S BIOS

To use the new drive, you must change your BIOS settings.  Use these customized
instructions as a checklist, checking off each step as you complete it.

[SWAPDRIVEINTRO]
Booting To Your New Hard Drive

Your original boot partition has been copied to your new hard drive.  If you
are going to boot to your new drive you will have to perform one of the
following:

   * Follow the instructions below for information on swapping your new
     drive with your original boot drive.
   * If you are using Windows XP or Windows 2000 and you have just copied your 
     files to a new boot drive using Disk Manager Starter Edition then you need 
     to follow specific instructions.  Important!  You must physically unplug your 
     old boot drive from this machine before booting to Windows.  Failure to do so 
     may damage your Windows installation.  The old boot drive may be connected 
     after one successful Windows boot and shut down.
   * If your BIOS supports booting to drives other then the primary master
     drive, you can set the BIOS to boot to your new drive.  See your BIOS
     documentation for instructions on how to do this.

[SWAPDRIVEINTRO_SATA]
Booting To Your New Hard Drive

Your original boot partition has been copied to your new hard drive.  If you
are going to boot to your new drive you will have to set the BIOS to boot to
your new drive.  See your BIOS documentation for instructions on how to do this.

[FORWARD]
Custom Installation Manual

DRIVE PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS

For easy installation, use these customized instructions as a checklist,
checking off each step as you complete it.

The following instructions have been customized for your system.  In addition
to these instructions, you may need to refer to your computer owner's manual
for information specific to your system, such as System Setup.

[FORWARD2]
FOLLOW THESE IMPORTANT PRECAUTIONS:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   * Handle the disk drive ONLY by its frame.  NEVER touch the connectors or
     any part of the circuit board.
   * DO NOT apply pressure or attach labels to the circuit board or top cover.
   * ALWAYS turn your computer off before beginning the installation and when
     adding, removing or changing jumpers on any drive.
   * Although switched off, ALWAYS keep your computer plugged into an
     electrical outlet with an earth ground.  This minimizes the possibility of
     damage from static discharge.
   * Disconnect external telephone and network cables from the computer.
   * Wear a grounded wrist strap if possible.  Attach the wrist strap to the
     metal chassis of your computer.  DO NOT install in areas with
     static-inducing carpets.
   * Back up the disk drive's data before starting.
   * ALWAYS note the orientation of all cables before disconnecting them.  Some
     cables can be reattached in positions that don't make a proper
     connection.
   * You may need a Phillips screwdriver and mounting screws, needle-nose pliers 
     to assist removing jumpers and an unused power connector.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[ENTERCMOSSETUP]
( ) RUNNING THE SYSTEM SETUP PROGRAM

To change your computers settings, you must enter the 'Setup' or 'CMOS Setup'
program of your computer and change the information.  There are several ways
to enter the setup, depending on your computer make and model.  Usually on the
initial power up, there will be a message stating 'Press DEL to enter Setup' or
something similar.  It may be necessary to press the key quickly, as the boot
sequence may continue on momentarily.

Check your computer or motherboard manual for the correct key combination, or
look for one of the following phrases or something similar with the word
'Setup' in it.

- Hit DEL if you want to run Setup
- Press F1 to enter Setup
- Press F2 to enter Setup
- Press and hold CTRL-ALT-ESC to begin System Setup
- To enter setup: Boot to a DOS prompt, and press CTRL-ALT-Enter
- Press CTRL-ALT-S to enter Setup

If you cannot determine how to enter the System Setup program, consult your
computer's manual or contact the manufacturer.

[ENABLESECONDARY]
( ) ENABLING THE SECONDARY CONTROLLER

After swapping drives you must enable the secondary controller in order to use
the partitions on the secondary drive.  Refer to the following instructions for
information about entering the System Setup program.

[DISASSEMBLY]
RUNNING THE SYSTEM SETUP PROGRAM

NOTE: Some BIOSes will not allow you to change the settings for your new drive
until after it is installed.  If your system does not allow you to configure
settings until after your drive is installed, refer to this section after you
have installed your drive.

( ) Enter system setup (CMOS).

   * Reboot your computer.
   * Watch the screen - as your computer starts up - for a message describing how 
     to run the System Setup program (also called BIOS or CMOS setup).  This is 
     usually done by pressing the DELETE, ESC or F1 keys.
   * Press the appropriate key to enter the System Setup program.

NOTE: If you cannot determine the proper key sequence to enter System Setup,
refer to your computer owner's manual or call your computer manufacturer for
assistance.

[SYSTEMSETUPAUTO]
SYSTEM SETUP SETTINGS FOR THE NEW DRIVE

( ) Verify or change the System Setup setting for your new hard drive in the
%s %s position.

   * Select "Auto" or "Enabled".  This allows your computer to configure itself
     automatically for your new drive.  Master and Slave are often described as 
     Drive 0 and Drive 1.
   * Save the CMOS settings and exit the Setup program.

[SYSTEMSETUPCOMMON]
INSTRUCTIONS ON PHYSICALLY INSTALLING THE DRIVE

( ) Turn off your computer.
( ) Remove your computer cover.

[PREADDTOCOPY]
SETTING THE CONFIGURATION JUMPERS AND MOUNTING THE DRIVE

Note: Cable Select is an alternate method to using the Master/Slave jumpers for
identifying the Master or Slave device on ATA/ATAPI systems. If there are
two devices on an ATA channel/cable, both devices must use either Cable Select
or Master/Slave settings.  The instructions below describe using the
Master/Slave jumpers, however, you can use Cable Select if you so desire.

( ) Set the jumpers on the new drive for the following position:

[ADDTOCOPYTABLE]

New Drive:      %s
Position:         %s
Configuration:    %s

[POSTADDTOCOPY]
NOTE: For new drives that are being added as a boot (master) drive, this
position is only temporary.  Your new drive must first be installed in this
position to allow data to be transferred from your old drive to your new one.


[CDROMMASTER]
CHANGING THE CD-ROM DRIVE JUMPER SETTINGS

( ) Change the jumpers on your CD-ROM drive from master to slave.  The correct
jumper settings can usually be found on a label on top of the CD-ROM drive or
near the jumper block on the back of the drive.

[MAYNEEDTOCHANGEMASTERJUMPERS]
CHANGING MASTER DRIVE JUMPER SETTINGS

( ) The jumpers on your old drive may need to be changed.  Verify the jumper
settings for the old drive.

[PREMASTERDRIVE]
CHANGING MASTER DRIVE JUMPER SETTINGS

( ) Change the jumper settings on your old drive.

[MASTERJUMPERSOK]
MASTER DRIVE JUMPER SETTINGS

( ) The jumper settings on your master drive do not need to be changed.

[MASTERTABLE]
Drive:           %s
Position:         %s
Configuration:    %s

[POSTMASTERDRIVE]
NOTE: The jumper settings on your old drive need to be changed when adding a
slave drive.  You may need to remove the old drive to change the jumper
settings.  After the jumpers are properly set, reinstall this drive.

[SYSTEMLOCKUP1]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TROUBLESHOOTING

Full Capacity Limitations 

If you have added a new drive and your system fails to detect the full capacity 
of the drive there are several possible causes. For ATA drives less than 137GB, 
most often this is caused by a BIOS limitation.  You can investigate updating 
your BIOS with utilities provided by your system manufacturer, or you can let 
Disk Manager add boot sector software that does the same thing.  If your ATA drive 
is greater than 137GB then your operating system may also have a fundamental 
limitation.  Windows XP Service Pack 1 or Windows 2000 Service Pack 3 or higher 
are required to support ATA and Serial ATA drives larger than 137GB.


System Lockup Information

If you have added a new drive and your system locks up at boot time (right
after turning the power on), or locks up during System Setup, there are several
possible causes.

If using parallel ATA, verify that the 40-pin ribbon cable is properly attached,
making sure that pin 1 on the cable matches pin 1 on the drive.

[SYSTEMLOCKUP9X]
Next, if your new drive is larger than 33.8GB, you may have an Award 4.51 BIOS
with a 33.8GB limitation that causes the system to hang during the Power On
Self Test (POST).

The best solution is to obtain a BIOS upgrade from your computer manufacturer
to support drives greater than 33.8GB.

Another solution for this 33.8GB limitation is to use the Disk Manager
utility to issue a command to the drive that will make it report a size of 33.8GB
or less.  This will alleviate the hang during POST and allow the system to boot.
Using this method, Disk Manager will still be able to install the drive to the
full capacity using the Dynamic Drive Overlay.

To implement this solution, use the following instructions.
1. Restart your computer and enter the System Setup program.  Change the
   setting for your new drive to "NONE".  Save the settings, exit the System
   Setup program and power down your computer.
2. Insert your Disk Manager bootable diskette and power up your computer.
3. From the main menu, select Utilities.
4. Select the "Set Drive Size" utility.  Then your new drive.
5. Follow the on-screen instructions to set the drive size.
6. When you are finished setting the drive size, reboot your computer.  Enter
   the System Setup program and set the drive type to "AUTO".  Save the
   settings and exit the System Setup program.

After following the instructions, restart your system with the
Disk Manager Diskette.

[SYSTEMLOCKUP2]
If your new drive is over 32GB, and other solutions have not worked, your
drive may provide an Alternate Capacity (AC) jumper that will lock the drives
LBA size to approximately 32 GB - allowing it to be used on systems that do
not support it (such as those having the Award BIOS 4.51 problem).  Follow the
procedure below titled "For drives WITH an alternate capacity (AC) option
jumper" to lock the drive size to approximately 32GB.  (Note if the AC jumper
is used on a drive over 32GB, Ontrack's DDO will not see more than the AC
jumper forced size of approximately 32GB).

If your new drive is between 2.1Gb and 32GB, and your System Setup (CMOS) is
set to "AUTO", you may have a BIOS with a 4096-cylinder limitation that hangs
the system during auto-detection.  Your computer manufacturer may have a BIOS
upgrade that will support more than 4096 cylinders.  To continue with this
installation, your drive may provide an alternate capacity (AC) jumper setting
that lowers the cylinder auto-detection to below the BIOS limitation barrier
and still provide full drive capacity using your hard disk installation
utility.

In this case, power off your system and install your drive's AC jumper, or
remove your new drive and go to the beginning of these instructions and follow
each step.

For drives WITH an alternate capacity (AC) option jumper:

1. Install the AC jumper per drive label instructions.
2. Set the CMOS drive type using ONE of the following methods listed in
   preferred order:
   a. Select "Automatic Drive Detection". This allows your computer to
      configure itself automatically for your new drive.
   b. Select "User-defined" or "Custom" drive setting and set to the following:
      1024   cylinders
        16   heads
        63   sectors
         0   write precomp (wp)
         0   landing zone (lz)
   c. Select Drive Type 1.

For drives WITHOUT an alternate capacity (AC) option jumper, choose option b)
or c) in step 2 above.

[MOUNTDRIVE]
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MOUNTING THE DRIVE

( ) Mount the drive.

1. Mount the drive in either the horizontal or the vertical position.  Use only 
   6-32 UNC typical computer mounting screws.
2. Slide the drive into the bay.
3. Align the drive-bay screw holes with the threaded holes in the drive
   housing or expansion brackets.  Hand thread the screws to lightly secure the
   drive in the bay.  For some installations, you might have to use the screw
   holes on the bottom (circuit board side) of the drive.
4. Check the drive alignment and tighten the screws firmly.  DO NOT over
   tighten.
NOTE: If you need to attach the drive in a 5.25-inch bay, attach a pair of
3.5-inch to 5.25-inch expansion.  Some computers require that you attach special
hard-disk-drive mounting hardware to ensure that the drive mounts securely into
the bay. Contact your computer dealer or refer to the documentation that comes
with your computer if you need specialized mounting hardware or more information.

[ATTACHCABLE]
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ATTACHING CABLES TO THE DRIVE

( ) Attach the cables to your new drive.

1. If using the 40-pin/80-conductor Ultra-ATA cable, attach the blue end
   connector to the system board or host controller, the grey middle
   connector to the Slave, and the black end connector to the Master. If
   using the standard 40-pin cable a single drive should be connected to the
   end connector; otherwise, the Master goes in the middle connector and the
   Slave goes in the end connector.
2. Be sure that pin 1, the colored wire on the interface cable, is closest to
   the DC power connector.
3. Find an unused power connector on a cable coming from the computer power
   supply and attach it to the four-pin DC power connector.  The power
   connector is keyed so that it attaches one way only.  DO NOT force it. If
   the connector does not attach using reasonable pressure, turn it and try
   again.
4. Verify that the cables do not interfere with the computer cover and do not
   block the power-supply fan blades or air-flow paths.

NOTE: If all power cables are in use, purchase a DC Y-connector (available at
many electronic stores) and split a connection to provide power for more
devices.

[ATTACHCABLE_SATA]
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ATTACHING CABLES TO THE DRIVE

( ) Attach the cables to your new drive.

1. Attach the Serial Data cable to the drive.  Attach the other end of the cable
   to the system board or host controller.  Both ends of the data cable are keyed
   so that they attach one way only.  DO NOT force it.  Both ends of the Serial 
   ATA cable are the same.
2. Some systems allow for Serial ATA drives to be powered using a 3.3V connection
   on the system board.  For more information on this type of connection, please
   consult your system board manual.  Otherwise, find an unused power connector
   on a cable coming from the computer power supply and attach it to the DC power
   connector on the drive, an adapter may be necessary.   The power
   connector is keyed so that it attaches one way only.  DO NOT force it. If
   the connector does not attach using reasonable pressure, turn it and try
   again.
3. Verify that the cables do not interfere with the computer cover and do not
   block the power-supply fan blades or air-flow paths.

NOTE: If all power cables are in use, purchase a DC Y-connector (available at
many electronic stores) and split a connection to provide power for more
devices.

[RECONNECTDEVICES]
( ) Reconnect all devices.  Make sure that the keyboard, mouse and monitor
cables are firmly connected.

( ) Reconnect all AC power cords.

[REMOUNT]
NOTE: It may be necessary to dismount your drive in order to change the jumper
settings for it.  If this is the case, then dismount your drive, configure it
with the proper jumper settings, and remount it using the same procedure as
was described in MOUNTING THE DRIVE earlier in this manual.

[REASSEMBLY]
REASSEMBLING THE COMPUTER

( ) Completing the physical installation of your new drive.

After you have completed the customized instructions to configure your new
drive, verify that the drive is securely mounted and the cables are firmly
attached.  Verify that the cables do not interfere with the computer cover and
do not block the power-supply fan blades or airflow paths.  Replace the
computer cover.  Reconnect all devices. Make sure that the keyboard, mouse and
monitor are firmly connected.  Reconnect all AC power cords.

[CONTINUEINSTALL]
( ) Physical drive installation is complete!  Boot your computer back to your
Disk Manager diskette and Disk Manager will partition and format your
new hard drive.  Follow the Disk Manager instructions after formatting your drive.  
If you are building a new system, have your Windows operating system setup boot 
CD or floppy diskettes ready to use.

[PREMOVE]
POSITIONING THE DRIVES CORRECTLY

( ) Turn off your computer.
( ) Remove your computer cover, if necessary.

[CHANGEJUMPERS]
( ) Change jumpers on drive %s

[MOVEDRIVE]
( ) Move drive %s
and change its jumpers

[REMOVEDRIVE]
( ) Remove drive %s
from the system.

[JUMPERSETTINGS1PCI]
from its old position of: %s %s (PCI controller)

[JUMPERSETTINGS1MBOARD]
from its old position of: %s %s (motherboard controller)

[JUMPERSETTINGS2PCI]
to its new position of: %s %s (PCI controller)

This is the final position of this drive.

[JUMPERSETTINGS2MBOARD]
to its new position of: %s %s (motherboard controller)

This is the final position of this drive.

[MOVEDRIVE_SATA]
( ) Disconnect the current boot drive: %s
from the Serial ATA controller and attach the new boot drive in that
same (lowest numbered) position.  If you still wish to use the old boot
drive, reattach it to the Serial ATA controller using any available
connection.

[MOVEDRIVE_NONSATA]
( ) Restart your computer.
( ) Enter the System Setup to change the boot order so that the computer
boots to Serial ATA before other device types.  Consult your system manual or
manufacturer for more information on how to change this setting.

[REBOOT]
EXITING THE SYSTEM SETUP PROGRAM

( ) After you have made the appropriate changes, save the CMOS settings and
exit the CMOS setup program.

[INSTALLIDECARD]
INSTALLING THE ATA ADAPTER CARD

( ) Disk Manager did not detect any ATA adapter cards installed in your
system.  If you do not already have an ATA adapter card installed in your
system, follow the instructions in the owner's manual of the ATA adapter
card and install the card.

[PREADDTOCOPYNEWIDECARD]
SETTING THE CONFIGURATION JUMPERS ON THE ADDITIONAL IDE ADAPTER

( ) Set the jumpers for the new drive on your additional IDE adapter card for
the following position:

New Drive:      %s
Position:         %s
Configuration:    %s



